I see some folks have  come to the
I see some folks have come to the
meeting already and  we probably can
meeting already and we probably can
get started  first and pleas meain
get started first and pleas meain
chat  like if you can hear me now
okay great  thank
okay great thank
you  right so today we have two rather
you right so today we have two rather
small CS  to go through  both cups
small CS to go through both cups
are about adding some new host functions
for turbon and both  pretty simple so
for turbon and both pretty simple so
just hopefully shouldn't take too long
to
discuss  the
discuss the
first okay maybe maybe let's wait for
like 30 seconds more I see folks keep
coming
right hey can see no one has t some last
even okay so let's get started right
we have tab 68 first
and tab 68  proposes to add a new host
and tab 68 proposes to add a new host
function  will be used to get at an
function will be used to get at an
executive for an address and depending
on what the address is the EXA the
executable value  will be different
executable value will be different
depending on what the
addresses  more
addresses more
specifically when the address
corresponds to the classic account with
technically no contract and executable
for it which is why we'll return Special
Value
that that this is a classic
account now when the dra corresponds to
a contract there are also two different
cases  one case is when the contract
cases one case is when the contract
is a to asset contract which is our
buildin contract and in that case again
you will get the
flag that says that this is a tered
contract and when you're doing with a CL
with a regular  vasm contract  we'll
with a regular vasm contract we'll
tell this vasm contract and provide the
respective has  this is actually both
respective has this is actually both
specification of the cap and quick
description of the cap  there isn't
description of the cap there isn't
much to talk about here  but I guess
much to talk about here but I guess
there is  quite a few things to tell
there is quite a few things to tell
about motivation for why would someone
actually want this super Po and why this
hasn't
implemented initially in the
protocol so in general  addresses are
protocol so in general addresses are
kind of abstract right  You can  for
kind of abstract right You can for
example call require o for any address
and in the background we will figure out
what exactly to call for it or you can
save the address in the storage for
example and you don't care exactly what
B is suggest  but there are some more
B is suggest but there are some more
narrow use cases which kind of came up
during the time of Tran's existence
and they're kind of different in their
ways  but the common topic as well
ways but the common topic as well
some information about the address is
necessary to be retried specifically one
of the cases which  has been brought
of the cases which has been brought
up is  about distinguishing the custom
up is about distinguishing the custom
tokens and S asset contract tokens
and  the way this function will help
and the way this function will help
is that it will be actually able to tell
on chain if a given contract is a
store asset contract and then for
example you can look up  the contract
example you can look up the contract
name and see which classic asset it
corresponds to and you actually don't
need to worry about like if you know the
executable is a s contract and you know
that its name is for example native
right then you actually are 100% sure on
chain that the contract you dealing this
is actually xrm contract which has the
name native and executable ised
contract and same goes basically for any
asset and this use case has come up in
the context of the AEL breaks that
does some FR chain token Ren and
basically you know to deploy a token on
a different chain they need to
understand like if it is a classic
tokens they doing with and th they can
create  appropriate metadata for this
create appropriate metadata for this
event and  there is no need to hurt
event and there is no need to hurt
code for example ID for all the
contracts and I think the question of
what is the address of the xlm contract
or how how they figure out if something
is xlm has come up quite a bit before
and now we provide a way that doesn't
actually involve for in the hardcoded
xlm value which may be valuable in some
cases another re case that  has come
up here but basically when  deing with
up here but basically when deing with
a custom accounts  there are maybe
a custom accounts there are maybe
several actually quite different cases
for why you would want to know
specifically what is a hash of a
particular wasm contract what is a wasm
hash
and this may come up both in the
implementation of the custom account
itself
say I you want your customer account to
only authorize token operations on some
tracted token implementation right again
for example to asset contract trusted
custom token
implementation  or maybe in general
implementation or maybe in general
you want to  be able to verify the
you want to be able to verify the
source of  certain  contracts you
source of certain contracts you
want to in right it is more of a
customization SC and in another case
that  T has brought up specifically is
that T has brought up specifically is
that if you wanted
to  build some modelized account that
to build some modelized account that
have several contracts Implement in
several  different authorization
several different authorization
policies which kind of makes sense for
the general customer account
custom
customization
you basically may have some contracts
that would do us for you and you
actually  want to be confident that
actually want to be confident that
this contracts will not be updated so
for example you trust certain contracts
to do something on your behalf  and
to do something on your behalf and
you trust its current implementation but
you do not want this implementation
to be   ever seen and if you know
to be ever seen and if you know
what is the current casat you can
actually enforce that and for the hasn't
make sure that the hash hasn't seen
in the future location so all and allers
are like pretty narrow cases it probably
doesn't come up for each and every
contract but I think they are
interesting enough and in general
functionality exist makes sense to
provide it like other part of the
deployer function right you you can
deploy something but you cannot know
what exactly has been deployed now we
kind of boot in another end of this and
I think beyond what I've been talking
about there are some other things that
people may come up to with this
functioning bits  it is not something
functioning bits it is not something
you need to store for
example
right I can try to speak louder  is
right I can try to speak louder is
it better
okay
okay yeah I should have P me sooner yeah
so what I've been saying is
that  the use case presented inen
that the use case presented inen
discussions are some this because it
motivated this happen the first place
but I'm sure there are more things
that people may come up with and this
functionality is not unique to s s but
for example EV evm has functions for
retrieving  the  actually they even
retrieving the actually they even
have functions to retrieve the entire
code which I don't think is relevant to
soran but also like to retrieve the hash
of the contract code which is more or
less what we are doing here so I think
all know it's  pretty  sensible idea
all know it's pretty sensible idea
to have and seemly some use cases where
this is
helpful  so this is pretty much it on
helpful so this is pretty much it on
the C presentation and  I don't know
the C presentation and I don't know
if there are any questions but there was
a
discussion  in GitHub regarding
discussion in GitHub regarding
the data structure to be used here
because the initial cap has n data
structure structure proposed and Lee has
suggested to use a flat data structure
and I think I haven't replied on the
discussion but after looking at this
again  before this m I think it seems
again before this m I think it seems
like a sensible suggestion so I'll
probably update the cap and  makes it
probably update the cap and makes it
ANM structure flat  yeah so it's like
ANM structure flat yeah so it's like
guess small implementation detail but I
think it probably makes sense to do that
yeah so that's pretty much it on cap
68 are there any
questions e
yeah regarding the fony yeah I agree
that even though we kind of going to
have two very similar data types  I
have two very similar data types I
think it makes sense conceptually to
have this FL
I guess it's not too much of
Maintenance
burden  yeah  not for performance
burden yeah not for performance
reasons but mostly for
quity all right  anyways if anyone has
quity all right anyways if anyone has
any more questions
please pause them in the discussion
thread  other that that's pretty much
thread other that that's pretty much
it for cap 68 and now cap 69  it's
it for cap 68 and now cap 69 it's
an even simpler cap and it simply adds
two conversion functions one to com
convert string object into bite object
and another to convert bite object back
into string object and  the reason for
into string object and the reason for
this is basically that spring
object well well first thing is that
strings and byes and thran are exactly
the same thing  so kind of makes sense
the same thing so kind of makes sense
for them to be convertible to each other
but the main reason for why this has
actually come up is that  due to I
actually come up is that due to I
guess bit of an oversight in in the
design  string has very restricted
design string has very restricted
set of the host
functions
that  can do anything about it
that can do anything about it
specifically you can get only stream
lens today and copy it into
memory  so people were trying to get
memory so people were trying to get
for example a character of a string
object and that's not possible without
actually copying the whole string back
into  guest memory and if you don't
into guest memory and if you don't
know the lens of your string then you
need to link aloc or do some weird ha
where you would only Lo some swice or
something  so basically it's all kind
something so basically it's all kind
of hey and
just adding the conversion functions is
a very quick  fix for that so you can
a very quick fix for that so you can
convert string into bites on the host
side  perform any of the operations
side perform any of the operations
that are already available for bites and
then maybe either converted back or  I
then maybe either converted back or I
don't  depending on your logic so yeah
don't depending on your logic so yeah
I think it was mostly design I don't
think say great reason  to not have it
think say great reason to not have it
and also this has come up actually about
a year ago for the at least once
before like  recently  and again
before like recently and again
people are just confused why there is no
conversion between bites and
strings and well you can just add it
it's a very simple change  so I guess
it's a very simple change so I guess
that's all I have to say for this cap
yeah so if there are any questions again
please let me know or please pause them
in the respective GitHub discussion
right
so that's it for me  I don't know
so that's it for me I don't know
if someone wants
to use this time for cap
67  or not I don't know
but yeah  that's pretty much it for
but yeah that's pretty much it for
for me and if no one else has any to
about then you can call it
Med
e
e e
okay it seems like no moment discussion
for today
and  I guess that's it for this
and I guess that's it for this
meeting  thank you everyone for
meeting thank you everyone for
attention